# C-Mini-Compiler-using-Lex-and-Yacc
   A compiler is a special program that processes statements written in a particular programming language and turns them into machine language or code that a computer's processors use. The file used for writing a C-language contains what are called the source statements. The programmer then runs the appropriate language compiler, specifying the name of the file that contains the source statements. When executing, the compiler first parses all of the language statements syntactically one after the other and then, in one or more successive stages, builds the output code, making sure that statements that refer to other statements are referred to correctly in the final code. The output of the compilation is called object code or sometimes an object module.
   Lexical analysis is the first phase of a compiler. It takes the modified source code from language preprocessors that are written in the form of sentences. The lexical analyzer breaks these syntaxes into a series of tokens, by removing any whitespace or comments in the source code. Symbol table is an important data structure created and maintained by compilers in order to store information about the occurrence of various entities such as variable names, function names, etc.
   Symbol table is used by both the analysis and the synthesis parts of a compiler. We have designed a lexical analyzer for the C language using lex. It takes as input a C code and outputs a stream of tokens. The tokens displayed as part of the output include keywords, identifiers, signed/unsigned integer/floating point constants, operators, special characters, headers, data-type specifiers, array, single-line comment, multi-line comment, preprocessor directive, pre-defined functions (printf and scanf), user-defined functions and the main function. The token, the type of token and the line number of the token in the C code are being displayed. The line number is displayed so that it is easier to debug the code for errors. Errors in single-line comments, multi-line comments are displayed along with line numbers. The output also contains the symbol table which contains tokens and their type. The symbol table is generated using the hash organisation.

